docs/tutorial.rst, before:

.. _tutorial:

Tutorial
==========

We will be using the `Iris`_ dataset for this tutorial. First we create the dataset we will be working with, by
declaring a class inheriting from Dataset which will define how we load our training and prediction data.
Scikit-learn comes with handy :ref:`sklearn:datasets`, so we will be using their :func:`~sklearn.datasets.load_iris`
data loader function

.. _Iris: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iris_flower_data_set

.. doctest::

    >>> from sklearn.datasets import load_iris
    >>> from ml_tooling.data import Dataset
    >>> import pandas as pd
    >>> import numpy as np

.. doctest::

    >>> class IrisData(Dataset):
    ...     def load_training_data(self):
    ...         data = load_iris()
    ...         target = np.where(data.target == 1, 1, 0)
    ...         return pd.DataFrame(data=data.data, columns=data.feature_names), target
    ...
    ...     def load_prediction_data(self, idx):
    ...         X, y = self.load_training_data()
    ...         return X.loc[idx, :].to_frame().T
    >>>
    >>> data = IrisData()
    >>> data.create_train_test()
    <IrisData - Dataset>

With our data object ready to go, lets move on to the model object.

.. doctest::

    >>> from ml_tooling import Model
    >>> from sklearn.linear_model import LogisticRegression
    >>>
    >>> lr_clf = Model(LogisticRegression())
    >>>
    >>> lr_clf.score_estimator(data, metrics='accuracy')
    <Result LogisticRegression: {'accuracy': 0.74}>

We have a few more estimators we'd like to try out and see which one performs best.
We can include a :class:`~sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestClassifier` and a :class:`~sklearn.dummy.DummyClassifier`
to have a baseline metric score.

In order to have a better idea of how the models perform, we can use cross-validation and benchmark the models against
each other using different metrics. The best estimator is then picked using the best mean cross-validation score

.. note::

    Note that the results will be sorted based on the first metric passed

.. doctest::

    >>> from sklearn.ensemble import RandomForestClassifier
    >>> from sklearn.dummy import DummyClassifier
    >>> estimators = [LogisticRegression(solver='lbfgs'),
    ...               RandomForestClassifier(n_estimators=10, random_state=42),
    ...               DummyClassifier(random_state=42)]
    >>> best_model, results = Model.test_estimators(data, estimators, metrics=['accuracy', 'roc_auc'], cv=10)
    >>> results
    ResultGroup(results=[<Result RandomForestClassifier: {'accuracy': 0.95, 'roc_auc': 0.98}>, <Result LogisticRegression: {'accuracy': 0.71, 'roc_auc': 0.79}>, <Result DummyClassifier: {'accuracy': 0.55, 'roc_auc': 0.52}>])

From our results, the :class:`~sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestClassifier` looks the most promising, so we want to see if
we can tune it a bit more. We can run a gridsearch over the hyperparameters using the :meth:`~Model.gridsearch` method.
We also want to log the results, so we can examine each potential model in depth, so we use the :meth:`~Model.log`
context manager, passing a log_directory where to save the files.

.. doctest::

    >>> # We could also use `best_model` here
    >>> rf_clf = Model(RandomForestClassifier(n_estimators=10, random_state=42))
    >>> with rf_clf.log('./gridsearch'):
    ...     best_model, results = rf_clf.gridsearch(data, {"max_depth": [3, 5, 10, 15]})
    >>>
    >>> results
    ResultGroup(results=[<Result RandomForestClassifier: {'accuracy': 0.95}>, <Result RandomForestClassifier: {'accuracy': 0.95}>, <Result RandomForestClassifier: {'accuracy': 0.95}>, <Result RandomForestClassifier: {'accuracy': 0.93}>])

.. testcleanup::

    import shutil
    shutil.rmtree(best_model.config.RUN_DIR.joinpath('gridsearch'))

As the results are ordered by highest mean accuracy, we can select the first result and plot some diagnostic plots using
the `.plot` accessor.

.. code-block::

    >>> best_result = results[0]
    >>> best_result.plot.feature_importance()

.. plot::

    >>> from sklearn.datasets import load_iris
    >>> from ml_tooling.data import Dataset
    >>> import pandas as pd
    >>> import numpy as np
    >>> class IrisData(Dataset):
    ...     def load_training_data(self):
    ...         data = load_iris()
    ...         target = np.where(data.target == 1, 1, 0)
    ...         return pd.DataFrame(data=data.data, columns=data.feature_names), target
    ...
    ...     def load_prediction_data(self, idx):
    ...         X, y = self.load_training_data()
    ...         return X.loc[idx, :].to_frame().T
    >>>
    >>> data = IrisData()
    >>> data.create_train_test()
    >>> from sklearn.ensemble import RandomForestClassifier
    >>> rf_clf = Model(RandomForestClassifier(n_estimators=10, random_state=42))
    >>> best_model, results = rf_clf.gridsearch(data, {"max_depth": [3, 5, 10, 15]})
    >>> best_model.result.plot.feature_importance()

.. testsetup::

    import pathlib
    pathlib.Path('./estimators').mkdir(exist_ok=True)

We finish up by saving our best model to a local file, so we can reload that model later

.. doctest::

    >>> from ml_tooling.storage import FileStorage
    >>>
    >>> storage = FileStorage('./estimators')
    >>> saved_path = best_model.save_estimator(storage)

.. testcleanup::

    import shutil
    import pathlib
    shutil.rmtree(pathlib.Path('./estimators'))

If you are interested in more examples of how to use ml-tooling, please see the project notebooks.

Continue to :doc:`dataset`

Commit message:

Moving results to codeblocks to avoid stochastic results

docs/tutorial.rst, after:

.. _tutorial:

Tutorial
==========

We will be using the `Iris`_ dataset for this tutorial. First we create the dataset we will be working with, by
declaring a class inheriting from Dataset which will define how we load our training and prediction data.
Scikit-learn comes with handy :ref:`sklearn:datasets`, so we will be using their :func:`~sklearn.datasets.load_iris`
data loader function

.. _Iris: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iris_flower_data_set

.. doctest::

    >>> from sklearn.datasets import load_iris
    >>> from ml_tooling.data import Dataset
    >>> import pandas as pd
    >>> import numpy as np

.. doctest::

    >>> class IrisData(Dataset):
    ...     def load_training_data(self):
    ...         data = load_iris()
    ...         target = np.where(data.target == 1, 1, 0)
    ...         return pd.DataFrame(data=data.data, columns=data.feature_names), target
    ...
    ...     def load_prediction_data(self, idx):
    ...         X, y = self.load_training_data()
    ...         return X.loc[idx, :].to_frame().T
    >>>
    >>> data = IrisData()
    >>> data.create_train_test()
    <IrisData - Dataset>

With our data object ready to go, lets move on to the model object.

.. doctest::

    >>> from ml_tooling import Model
    >>> from sklearn.linear_model import LogisticRegression
    >>>
    >>> lr_clf = Model(LogisticRegression())
    >>>
    >>> lr_clf.score_estimator(data, metrics='accuracy')
    <Result LogisticRegression: {'accuracy': 0.74}>

We have a few more estimators we'd like to try out and see which one performs best.
We can include a :class:`~sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestClassifier` and a :class:`~sklearn.dummy.DummyClassifier`
to have a baseline metric score.

In order to have a better idea of how the models perform, we can use cross-validation and benchmark the models against
each other using different metrics. The best estimator is then picked using the best mean cross-validation score

.. note::

    Note that the results will be sorted based on the first metric passed

.. doctest::

    >>> from sklearn.ensemble import RandomForestClassifier
    >>> from sklearn.dummy import DummyClassifier
    >>> estimators = [LogisticRegression(solver='lbfgs'),
    ...               RandomForestClassifier(n_estimators=10, random_state=42),
    ...               DummyClassifier(random_state=42)]
    >>> best_model, results = Model.test_estimators(data, estimators, metrics=['accuracy', 'roc_auc'], cv=10)

We can see that the results are sorted and shows us a nice repr of each model's performance

.. code-block:: python

    >>> results
    ResultGroup(results=[<Result RandomForestClassifier: {'accuracy': 0.95, 'roc_auc': 0.98}>, <Result LogisticRegression: {'accuracy': 0.71, 'roc_auc': 0.79}>, <Result DummyClassifier: {'accuracy': 0.55, 'roc_auc': 0.52}>])

From our results, the :class:`~sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestClassifier` looks the most promising, so we want to see if
we can tune it a bit more. We can run a gridsearch over the hyperparameters using the :meth:`~Model.gridsearch` method.
We also want to log the results, so we can examine each potential model in depth, so we use the :meth:`~Model.log`
context manager, passing a log_directory where to save the files.

.. doctest::

    >>> # We could also use `best_model` here
    >>> rf_clf = Model(RandomForestClassifier(n_estimators=10, random_state=42))
    >>> with rf_clf.log('./gridsearch'):
    ...     best_model, results = rf_clf.gridsearch(data, {"max_depth": [3, 5, 10, 15]})
    >>>
    >>> results
    ResultGroup(results=[<Result RandomForestClassifier: {'accuracy': 0.95}>, <Result RandomForestClassifier: {'accuracy': 0.95}>, <Result RandomForestClassifier: {'accuracy': 0.95}>, <Result RandomForestClassifier: {'accuracy': 0.93}>])

.. testcleanup::

    import shutil
    shutil.rmtree(best_model.config.RUN_DIR.joinpath('gridsearch'))

As the results are ordered by highest mean accuracy, we can select the first result and plot some diagnostic plots using
the `.plot` accessor.

.. code-block::

    >>> best_result = results[0]
    >>> best_result.plot.feature_importance()

.. plot::

    >>> from sklearn.datasets import load_iris
    >>> from ml_tooling.data import Dataset
    >>> import pandas as pd
    >>> import numpy as np
    >>> class IrisData(Dataset):
    ...     def load_training_data(self):
    ...         data = load_iris()
    ...         target = np.where(data.target == 1, 1, 0)
    ...         return pd.DataFrame(data=data.data, columns=data.feature_names), target
    ...
    ...     def load_prediction_data(self, idx):
    ...         X, y = self.load_training_data()
    ...         return X.loc[idx, :].to_frame().T
    >>>
    >>> data = IrisData()
    >>> data.create_train_test()
    >>> from sklearn.ensemble import RandomForestClassifier
    >>> rf_clf = Model(RandomForestClassifier(n_estimators=10, random_state=42))
    >>> best_model, results = rf_clf.gridsearch(data, {"max_depth": [3, 5, 10, 15]})
    >>> best_model.result.plot.feature_importance()

.. testsetup::

    import pathlib
    pathlib.Path('./estimators').mkdir(exist_ok=True)

We finish up by saving our best model to a local file, so we can reload that model later

.. doctest::

    >>> from ml_tooling.storage import FileStorage
    >>>
    >>> storage = FileStorage('./estimators')
    >>> saved_path = best_model.save_estimator(storage)

.. testcleanup::

    import shutil
    import pathlib
    shutil.rmtree(pathlib.Path('./estimators'))

If you are interested in more examples of how to use ml-tooling, please see the project notebooks.

Continue to :doc:`dataset`
